### Log file for November 19, 2021

#### Updates

* Met with Dr. Graham on Monday, November 8. Was able to talk through my ideas for the final project and get feedback. Discussed how I am going to put learning QGIS aside for now and focus on other mapping and geospatial technologies for the remainder of the course. QGIS has a steep learning curve so I can revisit it in 2022.
* One thing that I learned during my meeting with Dr. Graham is that GIS is very powerful but not great for communicating information for online storytelling/data visualization purposes. Tools like StoryMaps.js and Leaflet are better for that. This was very helpful to learn.
* Even before meeting with Dr. Graham, I was already thinking about using Google Earth to do some exploratory historical mapping work related to the Chaudiere Falls. This meeting opened my eyes to many other possibilities too (e.g. Leaflet, Mural, etc.)
* For most of last week I had to devote the bulk of my efforts to revising and completing my OGS application. This meant that I was only able to revisit my digital history work this week.
* I did the building static websites tutorial on the course website. Very basic but I now have an understanding of how to build a static site and how tools like Jekyll and Hugo can help me do it. I would probably want to build a static site to host my mapping work if I used Leaflet.

#### Challenges

* I began the Leaflet tutorial on the course website. I spent some time exploring Vincent Brown's web map of the Slave Revolt in Jamaica. This was very cool and I got a sense of how Leaflet can be used to build interactive historical mapping experiences.
* I ran into difficulty at Step 8 where the instructions ask you to use Python to start a webserver. I tried entering the code from the tutorial in the Command Prompt and got an error message. Based on this information, I figured that I needed to install Python on my computer. So I found a set of Python tutorials on the Programming Historian.
* I tried installing Python but ran into all kinds of issues. I was able to download Python but had a lot of difficulty making it through the Programming Historian tutorial on setting it all up. This was frustrating. I felt in over my head and needed to step away. That said, with some assistance from my peers I am sure that I will be able to figure all of this out. I plan to post on the Discord server for the course tomorrow.

#### Next steps

* Work on getting Python all setup and finishing the Leaflet tutorial.
* Identify datasets (i.e. historical maps of Ottawa, images of the Chaudiere Falls) to use for my project.
* Write my Devlog no. 2 this Sunday, November 21 and post the Github link on the Discord server.
* Plan A: build a prototype using Leaflet.
* Plan B: build a prototype using Google Earth or StoryMaps.js
